---
title: Custom Fonts
order: 9
layout: page
---

[[themes.fonts]]
= Custom Fonts

In addition to using the built-in fonts of the browser and the web fonts
included in the Vaadin themes, you can use custom web fonts.

[[themes.fonts.loading]]
== Loading Local Fonts

You can load locally served web fonts with the [literal]#++font++# mixin as
follows:


----
@include font(MyFontFamily,
              '../../../../mytheme/fonts/myfontfamily');
----

The statement must be given in the [filename]#styles.scss# file __outside__ the
[literal]#++.mytheme {}++# block.

The first parameter is the name of the font family, which is used to identify
the font. If the font family name contains spaces, you need to use single or
double quotes around the name.

The second parameter is the base name of the font files without an extension,
including a relative path. Notice that the path is relative to the base theme,
where the mixin is defined, not the used theme. We recommend placing custom font
files under a [filename]#fonts# folder in a theme.

Not all browsers support any single font file format, so the base name is
appended with [filename]#.ttf#, [filename]#.eot#, [filename]#.woff#, or
[filename]#.svg# suffix for the font file suitable for a user's browser.


[[themes.fonts.webfonts]]
== Loading Web Fonts

You can load externally served web fonts such as Google Fonts simply by
specifying the loading stylesheet for the UI with the [classname]#@StyleSheet#
annotation.

For example, to load the "Cabin Sketch" font from Google Fonts:

[subs="normal"]
----
@StyleSheet({"[replaceable]#http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Cabin+Sketch#"})
public class MyUI extends UI {
    ...
----
ifdef::web[]
Note that such web fonts served from a domain different from the Vaadin
application currently link:https://dev.vaadin.com/ticket/16249[do not work
together with] responsive themes, as described in
<<dummy/../../../framework/themes/themes-responsive#themes.responsive,"Responsive
Themes">>. The problem occurs only in Firefox. A SecurityError is shown in the
debug window.
endif::web[]


[[themes.fonts.using]]
== Using Custom Fonts

After loaded, you can use a custom font, or actually font family, by its name in
CSS and otherwise.


----
.mystyle {
    font-family: MyFontFamily;
}
----

Again, if the font family name contains spaces, you need to use single or double
quotes around the name.




